.TH ANVIL 8 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
anvil
\-
Postfix client count and rate management
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBanvil\fR [generic Postfix daemon options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
The Postfix \fBanvil\fR server maintains short-term statistics
to defend against clients that hammer a server with either too
many parallel connections or with too many successive connection
attempts within a configurable time interval.
This server is designed to run under control by the Postfix
master server.

The \fBanvil\fR server maintains no persistent database. Standard
library utilities do not meet Postfix performance and robustness
requirements.
.SH "PROTOCOL"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
When a remote client connects, a connection count (or rate) limited
server should send the following request to the \fBanvil\fR server:
.PP
.in +4
\fBrequest=connect\fR
.br
\fBident=\fIstring\fR
.in
.PP
This registers a new connection for the (service, client)
combination specified with \fBident\fR. The \fBanvil\fR server
answers with the number of simultaneous connections and the
number of connections per unit time for that (service, client)
combination:
.PP
.in +4
\fBstatus=0\fR
.br
\fBcount=\fInumber\fR
.br
\fBrate=\fInumber\fR
.in
.PP
The \fBrate\fR is computed as the number of connections
that were registered in the current "time unit" interval.
It is left up to the server to decide if the remote client
exceeds the connection count (or rate) limit.
.PP
When a remote client disconnects, a connection count (or rate) limited
server should send the following request to the \fBanvil\fR server:
.PP
.in +4
\fBrequest=disconnect\fR
.br
\fBident=\fIstring\fR
.in
.PP
This registers a disconnect event for the (service, client)
combination specified with \fBident\fR. The \fBanvil\fR
server replies with:
.PP
.ti +4
\fBstatus=0\fR
.PP
.SH "SECURITY"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The \fBanvil\fR server does not talk to the network or to local
users, and can run chrooted at fixed low privilege.

The \fBanvil\fR server maintains an in-memory table with information
about recent clients of a connection count (or rate) limited service.
Although state is kept only temporarily, this may require a lot of
memory on systems that handle connections from many remote clients.
To reduce memory usage, reduce the time unit over which state
is kept.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Problems and transactions are logged to \fBsyslogd\fR(8).

Upon exit, and every \fBclient_connection_status_update_time\fR
seconds, the server logs the maximal count and rate values measured,
together with (service, client) information and the time of day
associated with those events.
.SH BUGS
.ad
.fi
Systems behind network address translating routers or proxies
appear to have the same client address and can run into connection
count and/or rate limits falsely.

In this preliminary implementation, a count (or rate) limited server
can have only one remote client at a time. If a server reports
multiple simultaneous clients, all but the last reported client
are ignored.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Changes to \fBmain.cf\fR are picked up automatically as anvil(8)
processes run for only a limited amount of time. Use the command
"\fBpostfix reload\fR" to speed up a change.

The text below provides only a parameter summary. See
postconf(5) for more details including examples.
.IP "\fBanvil_rate_time_unit (60s)\fR"
The time unit over which client connection rates and other rates
are calculated.
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
The default location of the Postfix main.cf and master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBdaemon_timeout (18000s)\fR"
How much time a Postfix daemon process may take to handle a
request before it is terminated by a built-in watchdog timer.
.IP "\fBclient_event_status_update_time (600s)\fR"
How frequently the anvil(8) connection and rate limiting server
logs peak usage information.
.IP "\fBipc_timeout (3600s)\fR"
The time limit for sending or receiving information over an internal
communication channel.
.IP "\fBmax_idle (100s)\fR"
The maximum amount of time that an idle Postfix daemon process
waits for the next service request before exiting.
.IP "\fBmax_use (100)\fR"
The maximal number of connection requests before a Postfix daemon
process terminates.
.IP "\fBprocess_id (read-only)\fR"
The process ID of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBprocess_name (read-only)\fR"
The process name of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBsyslog_facility (mail)\fR"
The syslog facility of Postfix logging.
.IP "\fBsyslog_name (postfix)\fR"
The mail system name that is prepended to the process name in syslog
records, so that "smtpd" becomes, for example, "postfix/smtpd".
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
smtpd(8), Postfix SMTP server
postconf(5), configuration parameters
.SH "README FILES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Use "\fBpostconf readme_directory\fR" or
"\fBpostconf html_directory\fR" to locate this information.
.na
.nf
TUNING_README, performance tuning
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The Secure Mailer license must be distributed with this software.
.SH "HISTORY"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The anvil service was introduced with Postfix 2.1.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
