.TH FLUSH 8 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
flush
\-
Postfix fast flush server
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBflush\fR [generic Postfix daemon options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
The flush server maintains a record of deferred mail by destination.
This information is used to improve the performance of the SMTP
\fBETRN\fR request, and of its command-line equivalent,
\fBsendmail -qR\fR.
This program expects to be run from the \fBmaster\fR(8) process
manager.

The record is implemented as a per-destination logfile with
as contents the queue IDs of deferred mail. A logfile is
append-only, and is truncated when delivery is requested
for the corresponding destination. A destination is the
part on the right-hand side of the right-most \fB@\fR in
an email address.

Per-destination logfiles of deferred mail are maintained only for
eligible destinations. The list of eligible destinations is
specified with the \fBfast_flush_domains\fR configuration parameter,
which defaults to \fB$relay_domains\fR.

This server implements the following requests:
.IP "\fBFLUSH_REQ_ADD\fI sitename queue_id\fR"
Inform the fast flush server that the specified message is queued for
\fIsitename\fR. Depending on logging policy, the fast flush server
stores or ignores the information.
.IP "\fBFLUSH_REQ_SEND\fI sitename\fR"
Request delivery of mail that is queued for \fIsitename\fR.
If the destination is eligible for a fast flush logfile,
this request triggers delivery of messages listed in that
destination's logfile, and the logfile is truncated to zero length;
if mail is undeliverable it will be added back to the logfile.
.sp
If the destination is not eligible for a fast flush logfile,
this request is rejected (see below for status codes).
.IP \fBTRIGGER_REQ_WAKEUP\fR
This wakeup request from the master is an alternative way to
request \fBFLUSH_REQ_REFRESH\fR.
.IP "\fBFLUSH_REQ_REFRESH\fR (completes in the background)"
Refresh non-empty per-destination logfiles that were not read in
\fBfast_flush_refresh_time\fR hours, by simulating
send requests (see above) for the corresponding destinations.
.sp
Delete empty per-destination logfiles that were not updated in
\fBfast_flush_purge_time\fR days.
.IP "\fBFLUSH_REQ_PURGE\fR (completes in the background)"
Refresh all non-empty per-destination logfiles, by simulating
send requests (see above) for the corresponding destinations.
This can be incredibly expensive when logging is enabled for
many destinations, and is not recommended.
.sp
Delete empty per-destination logfiles that were not updated in
\fBfast_flush_purge_time\fR days.
.PP
The server response is one of:
.IP \fBFLUSH_STAT_OK\fR
The request completed normally.
.IP \fBFLUSH_STAT_BAD\fR
The flush server rejected the request (bad request name, bad
request parameter value).
.IP \fBFLUSH_STAT_FAIL\fR
The request failed.
.IP \fBFLUSH_STAT_DENY\fR
The request was denied because the destination domain is not
eligible for fast flush service, or because the fast flush
service is disabled.
.SH "SECURITY"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The fast flush server is not security-sensitive. It does not
talk to the network, and it does not talk to local users.
The fast flush server can run chrooted at fixed low privilege.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Problems and transactions are logged to \fBsyslogd\fR(8).
.SH BUGS
.ad
.fi
Fast flush logfiles are truncated only after a \fBFLUSH_REQ_SEND\fR
request, not when mail is actually delivered, and therefore can
accumulate outdated or redundant data. In order to maintain sanity,
\fBFLUSH_REQ_REFRESH\fR must be executed periodically. This can
be automated with a suitable wakeup timer setting in the
\fBmaster.cf\fR configuration file.

Upon receipt of a request to deliver all mail for an eligible
destination, the \fBflush\fR server requests delivery of all messages
that are listed in that destination's logfile, regardless of the
recipients of those messages. This is not an issue for mail
that is sent to a \fBrelay_domains\fR destination because
such mail typically only has recipients in one domain.
.SH "FILES"
.na
.nf
$queue_directory/flush, location of "fast flush" logfiles.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Changes to \fBmain.cf\fR are picked up automatically as flush(8)
processes run for only a limited amount of time. Use the command
"\fBpostfix reload\fR" to speed up a change.

The text below provides only a parameter summary. See
postconf(5) for more details including examples.
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
The default location of the Postfix main.cf and master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBdaemon_timeout (18000s)\fR"
How much time a Postfix daemon process may take to handle a
request before it is terminated by a built-in watchdog timer.
.IP "\fBfast_flush_domains ($relay_domains)\fR"
Optional list of destinations that are eligible for per-destination
logfiles with mail that is queued to those destinations.
.IP "\fBfast_flush_refresh_time (12h)\fR"
The time after which a non-empty but unread per-destination "fast
flush" logfile needs to be refreshed.
.IP "\fBfast_flush_purge_time (7d)\fR"
The time after which an empty per-destination "fast flush" logfile
is deleted.
.IP "\fBipc_timeout (3600s)\fR"
The time limit for sending or receiving information over an internal
communication channel.
.IP "\fBmax_idle (100s)\fR"
The maximum amount of time that an idle Postfix daemon process
waits for the next service request before exiting.
.IP "\fBmax_use (100)\fR"
The maximal number of connection requests before a Postfix daemon
process terminates.
.IP "\fBparent_domain_matches_subdomains (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
What Postfix features match subdomains of "domain.tld" automatically,
instead of requiring an explicit ".domain.tld" pattern.
.IP "\fBprocess_id (read-only)\fR"
The process ID of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBprocess_name (read-only)\fR"
The process name of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBqueue_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
The location of the Postfix top-level queue directory.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
postconf(5) configuration parameters
smtpd(8) Postfix SMTP server
qmgr(8) Postfix queue manager
syslogd(8) system logging
.SH "README FILES"
.na
.nf
Use "\fBpostconf readme_directory\fR" to locate this information.
ETRN_README, Postfix ETRN howto
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The Secure Mailer license must be distributed with this software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
