.TH PICKUP 8 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
pickup
\-
Postfix local mail pickup
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBpickup\fR [generic Postfix daemon options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
The \fBpickup\fR daemon waits for hints that new mail has been
dropped into the \fBmaildrop\fR directory, and feeds it into the
\fBcleanup\fR(8) daemon.
Ill-formatted files are deleted without notifying the originator.
This program expects to be run from the \fBmaster\fR(8) process
manager.
.SH "STANDARDS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
None. The \fBpickup\fR daemon does not interact with the outside world.
.SH "SECURITY"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The \fBpickup\fR daemon is moderately security sensitive. It runs
with fixed low privilege and can run in a chrooted environment.
However, the program reads files from potentially hostile users.
The \fBpickup\fR daemon opens no files for writing, is careful about
what files it opens for reading, and does not actually touch any data
that is sent to its public service endpoint.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Problems and transactions are logged to \fBsyslogd\fR(8).
.SH BUGS
.ad
.fi
The \fBpickup\fR daemon copies mail from file to the \fBcleanup\fR(8)
daemon.  It could avoid message copying overhead by sending a file
descriptor instead of file data, but then the already complex
\fBcleanup\fR(8) daemon would have to deal with unfiltered user data.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
As the pickup daemon is a relatively long-running process, up
to an hour may pass before a \fBmain.cf\fR change takes effect.
Use the command "\fBpostfix reload\fR" command to speed up a change.

The text below provides only a parameter summary. See
postconf(5) for more details including examples.
.SH "EXTERNAL CONTENT INSPECTION CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBcontent_filter (empty)\fR"
The name of a mail delivery transport that filters mail after
it is queued.
.IP "\fBreceive_override_options (empty)\fR"
What input processing happens before or after an external content
filter.
.SH "MISCELLANEOUS CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
The default location of the Postfix main.cf and master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBdaemon_timeout (18000s)\fR"
How much time a Postfix daemon process may take to handle a
request before it is terminated by a built-in watchdog timer.
.IP "\fBipc_timeout (3600s)\fR"
The time limit for sending or receiving information over an internal
communication channel.
.IP "\fBline_length_limit (2048)\fR"
Upon input, long lines are chopped up into pieces of at most
this length; upon delivery, long lines are reconstructed.
.IP "\fBmax_idle (100s)\fR"
The maximum amount of time that an idle Postfix daemon process
waits for the next service request before exiting.
.IP "\fBmax_use (100)\fR"
The maximal number of connection requests before a Postfix daemon
process terminates.
.IP "\fBprocess_id (read-only)\fR"
The process ID of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBprocess_name (read-only)\fR"
The process name of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBqueue_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
The location of the Postfix top-level queue directory.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
cleanup(8) message canonicalization
master(8) process manager
postconf(5) configuration parameters
sendmail(1), postdrop(8) mail posting agent
syslogd(8) system logging
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The Secure Mailer license must be distributed with this software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
