.TH POSTLOGD 8 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
postlogd
\-
Postfix internal log server
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBpostlogd\fR [generic Postfix daemon options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
This program logs events on behalf of Postfix programs
when the maillog configuration parameter specifies a non\-empty
value.
.SH BUGS
.ad
.fi
Non\-daemon Postfix programs don't know that they should log
to the internal logging service until after they have
processed command\-line options and main.cf parameters. These
programs still log earlier events to the syslog service.

If Postfix is down, then logging from non\-daemon programs
will be lost, except for logging from the \fBpostfix\fR(1),
\fBpostlog\fR(1), and \fBpostsuper\fR(1) commands. These
commands can log directly to file when running as root, for
example during Postfix start\-up.

Non\-daemon Postfix programs can talk to \fBpostlogd\fR(8)
only if they are run by the super\-user, or if their executable
files have set\-gid permission.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Changes to \fBmain.cf\fR are picked up automatically, as
\fBpostlogd\fR(8) processes run for only a limited amount
of time. Use the command "\fBpostfix reload\fR" to speed
up a change.

The text below provides only a parameter summary. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) for more details including examples.
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
The default location of the Postfix main.cf and master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBmaillog_file (empty)\fR"
The name of an optional logfile that is written by the \fBpostlogd\fR(8)
internal logging service.
.IP "\fBprocess_id (read\-only)\fR"
The process ID of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBprocess_name (read\-only)\fR"
The process name of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBsyslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
A prefix that is prepended to the process name in syslog
records, so that, for example, "smtpd" becomes "prefix/smtpd".
.IP "\fBservice_name (read\-only)\fR"
The master.cf service name of a Postfix daemon process.
.IP "\fBpostlogd_watchdog_timeout (10s)\fR"
How much time a \fBpostlogd\fR(8) process may take to process a request
before it is terminated by a built\-in watchdog timer.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
postconf(5), configuration parameters
syslogd(5), system logging
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The Secure Mailer license must be distributed with this software.
.SH HISTORY
.ad
.fi
.ad
.fi
This service was introduced with Postfix version 3.4.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
Google, Inc.
111 8th Avenue
New York, NY 10011, USA
