.TH VERIFY 8 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
verify
\-
Postfix address verification server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.nf
\fBverify\fR [generic Postfix daemon options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
The Postfix address verification server maintains a record
of what recipient addresses are known to be deliverable or
undeliverable.

Addresses are verified by submitting probe messages to the
Postfix queue. Probe messages are run through all the routing
and rewriting machinery except for final delivery, and are
discarded rather than being deferred or bounced.

Address verification relies on the answer from the nearest
MTA for the specified address, and will therefore not detect
all undeliverable addresses.

This server is designed to run under control by the Postfix
master server. It maintains an optional persistent database.
To avoid being interrupted by "postfix stop" in the middle
of a database update, the process runs in a separate process
group.

This server implements the following requests:
.IP "\fBVRFY_ADDR_UPDATE\fI address status text\fR"
Update the status of the specified address.
.IP "\fBVRFY_ADDR_QUERY\fI address\fR"
Look up the \fIstatus\fR and \fItext\fR of the specified address.
If the status is unknown, a probe is sent and a default status is
returned.
.PP
The server reply status is one of:
.IP \fBVRFY_STAT_OK\fR
The request completed normally.
.IP \fBVRFY_STAT_BAD\fR
The server rejected the request (bad request name, bad
request parameter value).
.IP \fBVRFY_STAT_FAIL\fR
The request failed.
.PP
The recipient status is one of:
.IP \fBDEL_RCPT_STAT_OK\fR
The address is deliverable.
.IP \fBDEL_RCPT_STAT_DEFER\fR
The address is undeliverable due to a temporary problem.
.IP \fBDEL_RCPT_STAT_BOUNCE\fR
The address is undeliverable due to a permanent problem.
.IP \fBDEL_RCPT_STAT_TODO\fR
The address status is being determined.
.SH SECURITY
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The address verification server is not security-sensitive. It does
not talk to the network, and it does not talk to local users.
The verify server can run chrooted at fixed low privilege.

The address verification server can be coerced to store
unlimited amounts of garbage. Limiting the cache size
trades one problem (disk space exhaustion) for another
one (poor response time to client requests).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Problems and transactions are logged to \fBsyslogd\fR(8).
.SH BUGS
.ad
.fi
If the persistent database ever gets corrupted then the world
comes to an end and human intervention is needed. This violates
a basic Postfix principle.
.SH CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
See the Postfix \fBmain.cf\fR file for syntax details and for
default values. Use the \fBpostfix reload\fR command after a
configuration change.
.SH Cache control
.ad
.fi
.IP \fBaddress_verify_map\fR
Optional table for persistent recipient status storage. The file
is opened before the process enters a chroot jail and before
it drops root privileges.
By default, the information is kept in volatile memory,
and is lost after \fBpostfix reload\fR or \fBpostfix stop\fR.
.sp
To recover from a corrupted address verification database,
delete the file and do \fBpostfix reload\fR.
.IP \fBaddress_verify_sender\fR
The sender address to use for probe messages. Specify an empty
value (\fBaddress_verify_sender =\fR) or \fB<>\fR if you want
to use the null sender address.
.IP \fBaddress_verify_positive_expire_time\fR
The amount of time after which a known to be good address expires.
.IP \fBaddress_verify_positive_refresh_time\fR
The minimal amount of time after which a proactive probe is sent to
verify that a known to be good address is still good. The address
status is not updated when the probe fails (optimistic caching).
.IP \fBaddress_verify_negative_cache\fR
A boolean parameter that controls whether negative probe results
are stored in the address verification cache. When enabled, the
cache may pollute quickly with garbage. When disabled, Postfix
will generate an address probe for every lookup.
.IP \fBaddress_verify_negative_expire_time\fR
The amount of time after which a rejected address expires.
.IP \fBaddress_verify_negative_refresh_time\fR
The minimal amount of time after which a proactive probe is sent to
verify that a known to be bad address is still bad.
.SH Probe message routing
.ad
.fi
By default, probe messages are delivered via the same route
as regular messages.  The following parameters can be used to
override specific message routing mechanisms.
.IP \fBaddress_verify_relayhost\fR
Overrides the \fBrelayhost\fR setting.
.IP \fBaddress_verify_transport_maps\fR
Overrides the \fBtransport_maps\fR setting.
.IP \fBaddress_verify_local_transport\fR
Overrides the \fBlocal_transport\fR setting.
.IP \fBaddress_verify_virtual_transport\fR
Overrides the \fBvirtual_transport\fR setting.
.IP \fBaddress_verify_relay_transport\fR
Overrides the \fBrelay_transport\fR setting.
.IP \fBaddress_verify_default_transport\fR
Overrides the \fBdefault_transport\fR setting.
.SH SEE ALSO
.na
.nf
trivial-rewrite(8) address rewriting and resolving
.SH LICENSE
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The Secure Mailer license must be distributed with this software.
.SH AUTHOR(S)
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
