.TH SMTP-SOURCE 1 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
smtp-source
\-
parallelized SMTP/LMTP test generator
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
.fi
\fBsmtp\-source\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [\fBinet:\fR]\fIhost\fR[:\fIport\fR]

\fBsmtp\-source\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fBunix:\fIpathname\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
\fBsmtp\-source\fR connects to the named \fIhost\fR and TCP \fIport\fR
(default: port 25)
and sends one or more messages to it, either sequentially
or in parallel. The program speaks either SMTP (default) or
LMTP.
Connections can be made to UNIX\-domain and IPv4 or IPv6 servers.
IPv4 and IPv6 are the default.

Note: this is an unsupported test program. No attempt is made
to maintain compatibility between successive versions.

Arguments:
.IP \fB\-4\fR
Connect to the server with IPv4. This option has no effect when
Postfix is built without IPv6 support.
.IP \fB\-6\fR
Connect to the server with IPv6. This option is not available when
Postfix is built without IPv6 support.
.IP "\fB\-A\fR"
Don't abort when the server sends something other than the
expected positive reply code.
.IP \fB\-c\fR
Display a running counter that is incremented each time
an SMTP DATA command completes.
.IP "\fB\-C \fIcount\fR"
When a host sends RESET instead of SYN|ACK, try \fIcount\fR times
before giving up. The default count is 1. Specify a larger count in
order to work around a problem with TCP/IP stacks that send RESET
when the listen queue is full.
.IP \fB\-d\fR
Don't disconnect after sending a message; send the next
message over the same connection.
.IP "\fB\-f \fIfrom\fR"
Use the specified sender address (default: <foo@my\-hostname>).
.IP "\fB\-F \fIfile\fR"
Send the pre\-formatted message header and body in the
specified \fIfile\fR, while prepending '.' before lines that
begin with '.', and while appending CRLF after each line.
.IP "\fB\-l \fIlength\fR"
Send \fIlength\fR bytes as message payload. The length does not
include message headers.
.IP \fB\-L\fR
Speak LMTP rather than SMTP.
.IP "\fB\-m \fImessage_count\fR"
Send the specified number of messages (default: 1).
.IP "\fB\-M \fImy\-hostname\fR"
Use the specified hostname or [address] in the HELO command
and in the default sender and recipient addresses, instead
of the machine hostname.
.IP "\fB\-N\fR"
Generate each recipient address by appending a number (a
per\-process recipient counter) to the recipient address
localpart specified with the \fB\-t\fR option.

Note: to use the number as an address extension, specify
an explicit address delimiter at the end of the recipient
localpart, as in "\fB\-t localpart+@domain\fR" or "\fB\-t
localpart+\fR", where "\fB+\fR" is a Postfix recipient
address delimiter.

Benefits:
.RS
.IP \(bu
A non\-constant recipient address avoids an unrealistic 100%
cache hit rate in clients of the Postfix trivial\-rewrite
service, better approximating performance under real\-life
work\-loads.
.IP \(bu
A fixed recipient address local\-part with a non\-constant
address extension avoids the need to configure a large
number of valid recipient addresses in the receiving Postfix
server.
.RE
.IP \fB\-o\fR
Old mode: don't send HELO, and don't send message headers.
.IP "\fB\-r \fIrecipient_count\fR"
Send the specified number of recipients per transaction
(default: 1), and generate recipient addresses as described
under the \fB\-N\fR option.
.IP "\fB\-R \fIinterval\fR"
Wait a random time (0 <= n <= \fIinterval\fR) between messages.
Suspending one thread does not affect other delivery threads.
.IP "\fB\-s \fIsession_count\fR"
Run the specified number of SMTP sessions in parallel (default: 1).
.IP "\fB\-S \fIsubject\fR"
Send mail with the named subject line (default: none).
.IP "\fB\-t \fIto\fR"
Use the specified recipient address (default: <foo@my\-hostname>).
.IP "\fB\-T \fIwindowsize\fR"
Override the default TCP window size. To work around
broken TCP window scaling implementations, specify a
value > 0 and < 65536.
.IP \fB\-v\fR
Make the program more verbose, for debugging purposes.
.IP "\fB\-w \fIinterval\fR"
Wait a fixed time between messages.
Suspending one thread does not affect other delivery threads.
.IP [\fBinet:\fR]\fIhost\fR[:\fIport\fR]
Connect via TCP to host \fIhost\fR, port \fIport\fR. The default
port is \fBsmtp\fR.
.IP \fBunix:\fIpathname\fR
Connect to the UNIX\-domain socket at \fIpathname\fR.
.SH BUGS
.ad
.fi
No SMTP command pipelining support.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
smtp\-sink(1), SMTP/LMTP message dump
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The Secure Mailer license must be distributed with this software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA

Wietse Venema
Google, Inc.
111 8th Avenue
New York, NY 10011, USA
