.TH POSTCONF 1 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
postconf
\-
Postfix configuration utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.nf
.fi
\fBpostconf\fR [\fB-dhmlnv\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR]
[\fIparameter ...\fR]

\fBpostconf\fR [\fB-ev\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR]
[\fIparameter=value ...\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
The \fBpostconf\fR command prints the actual value of
\fIparameter\fR (all known parameters by default), one
parameter per line, changes its value, or prints other
information about the Postfix mail system.

Options:
.IP "\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR"
The \fBmain.cf\fR configuration file is in the named directory
instead of the default configuration directory.
.IP \fB-d\fR
Print default parameter settings instead of actual settings.
.IP \fB-e\fR
Edit the \fBmain.cf\fR configuration file. The file is copied
to a temporary file then renamed into place. Parameters and
values are specified on the command line. Use quotes in order
to protect shell metacharacters and whitespace.
.IP \fB-h\fR
Show parameter values only, not the ``name = '' label
that normally precedes the value.
.IP \fB-l\fR
List the names of all supported mailbox locking methods.
Postfix supports the following methods:
.RS
.IP \fBflock\fR
A kernel-based advisory locking method for local files only.
This locking method is available only on systems with a BSD
compatible library.
.IP \fBfcntl\fR
A kernel-based advisory locking method for local and remote files.
.IP \fBdotlock\fR
An application-level locking method. An application locks a file
named \fIfilename\fR by creating a file named \fIfilename\fB.lock\fR.
The application is expected to remove its own lock file, as well as
stale lock files that were left behind after abnormal termination.
.RE
.IP \fB-m\fR
List the names of all supported lookup table types.
.IP \fB-n\fR
Print non-default parameter settings only.
.IP \fB-v\fR
Enable verbose logging for debugging purposes. Multiple \fB-v\fR
options make the software increasingly verbose.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Problems are reported to the standard error stream.
.SH LICENSE
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The Secure Mailer license must be distributed with this software.
.SH AUTHOR(S)
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
