.TH POSTQUEUE 1 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
postqueue
\-
Postfix queue control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.nf
\fBpostqueue\fR \fB-f\fR
.br
\fBpostqueue\fR \fB-p\fR
.br
\fBpostqueue\fR \fB-s \fIsite\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
The \fBpostqueue\fR program implements the Postfix user interface
for queue management. It implements all the operations that are
traditionally available via the \fBsendmail\fR(1) command.

The following options are recognized:
.IP \fB-f\fR
Flush the queue: attempt to deliver all queued mail.

This option implements the traditional \fBsendmail -q\fR command,
by contacting the Postfix \fBqmgr\fR(8) daemon.
.IP \fB-p\fR
Produce a traditional sendmail-style queue listing.

This option implements the traditional \fBmailq\fR command,
by contacting the Postfix \fBshowq\fR(8) daemon.
.IP "\fB-s \fIsite\fR"
Schedule immediate delivery of all mail that is queued for the named
\fIsite\fR. The site must be eligible for the "fast flush" service.
See \fBflush\fR(8) for more information about the "fast flush"
service.

This option implements the traditional \fBsendmail -qR\fIsite\fR
command, by connecting to the SMTP server at \fB$myhostname\fR.
.IP \fB-v\fR
Enable verbose logging for debugging purposes. Multiple \fB-v\fR
options make the software increasingly verbose.
.SH SECURITY
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
By design, this program is set-user (or group) id, so that it
can connect to public, but protected, Postfix daemon processes.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Problems are logged to \fBsyslogd\fR(8) and to the standard error
stream.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The program deletes most environment information, because the C
library can't be trusted.
.SH FILES
.na
.nf
/var/spool/postfix, mail queue
/etc/postfix, configuration files
.SH CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP \fBimport_environment\fR
List of names of environment parameters that can be imported
from non-Postfix processes.
.IP \fBqueue_directory\fR
Top-level directory of the Postfix queue. This is also the root
directory of Postfix daemons that run chrooted.
.IP \fBfast_flush_domains\fR
List of domains that will receive "fast flush" service (default: all
domains that this system is willing to relay mail to). This list
specifies the domains that Postfix accepts in the SMTP \fBETRN\fR
request and in the \fBsendmail -qR\fR command.
.SH SEE ALSO
.na
.nf
sendmail(8) sendmail-compatible user interface
qmgr(8) queue manager
showq(8) list mail queue
flush(8) fast flush service
.SH LICENSE
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The Secure Mailer license must be distributed with this software.
.SH AUTHOR(S)
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
