.TH POSTFIX 1 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
postfix
\-
Postfix control program
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
.fi
\fBpostfix\fR [\fB-Dv\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR] \fIcommand\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
This command is reserved for the superuser. To submit mail,
use the Postfix \fBsendmail\fR command.

The \fBpostfix\fR command controls the operation of the Postfix
mail system: start or stop the \fBmaster\fR daemon, do a health
check, and other maintenance.

The \fBpostfix\fR command sets up a standardized environment and
runs the \fBpostfix-script\fR shell script to do the actual work.

The following commands are implemented:
.IP \fBcheck\fR
Validate the Postfix mail system configuration. Warn about bad
directory/file ownership or permissions, and create missing
directories.
.IP \fBstart\fR
Start the Postfix mail system. This also runs the configuration
check described above.
.IP \fBstop\fR
Stop the Postfix mail system in an orderly fashion. Running processes
are allowed to terminate at their earliest convenience.
.sp
Note: in order to refresh the Postfix mail system after a
configuration change, do not use the \fBstart\fR and \fBstop\fR
commands in succession. Use the \fBreload\fR command instead.
.IP \fBabort\fR
Stop the Postfix mail system abruptly. Running processes are
signaled to stop immediately.
.IP \fBflush\fR
Force delivery: attempt to deliver every message in the deferred
mail queue. Normally, attempts to deliver delayed mail happen at
regular intervals, the interval doubling after each failed attempt.
.IP \fBreload\fR
Re-read configuration files. Running processes terminate at their
earliest convenience.
.PP
The following options are implemented:
.IP "\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR"
Read the \fBmain.cf\fR and \fBmaster.cf\fR configuration files in
the named directory instead of the default configuration directory.
Use this to distinguish between multiple Postfix instances on the
same host.
.IP "\fB-D\fR (with \fBpostfix start\fR only)"
Run each Postfix daemon under control of a debugger as specified
via the \fBdebugger_command\fR configuration parameter.
.IP \fB-v\fR
Enable verbose logging for debugging purposes. Multiple \fB-v\fR
options make the software increasingly verbose.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The \fBpostfix\fR command exports the following environment
variables before executing the \fBpostfix-script\fR file:
.IP \fBMAIL_CONFIG\fR
This is set when the -c command-line option is present.
.IP \fBMAIL_VERBOSE\fR
This is set when the -v command-line option is present.
.IP \fBMAIL_DEBUG\fR
This is set when the -D command-line option is present.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The following \fBmain.cf\fR configuration parameters are
exported as environment variables with the same names:
.IP "\fBcommand_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
The location of all postfix administrative commands.
.IP "\fBdaemon_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
The directory with Postfix support programs and daemon programs.
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
The default location of the Postfix main.cf and master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBqueue_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
The location of the Postfix top-level queue directory.
.IP "\fBmail_owner (postfix)\fR"
The UNIX system account that owns the Postfix queue and most Postfix
daemon processes.
.IP "\fBsetgid_group (postdrop)\fR"
The group ownership of set-gid Postfix commands and of group-writable
Postfix directories.
.IP "\fBsendmail_path (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
A Sendmail compatibility feature that specifies the location of
the Postfix sendmail(1) command.
.IP "\fBnewaliases_path (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Sendmail compatibility feature that specifies the location of the
newaliases(1) command.
.IP "\fBmailq_path (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Sendmail compatibility feature that specifies where the Postfix
mailq(1) command is installed.
.IP "\fBmanpage_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Where the Postfix manual pages are installed.
.IP "\fBreadme_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
The location of Postfix README files that describe how to build,
configure or operate a specific Postfix subsystem or feature.
.PP
Other configuration parameters:
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
The default location of the Postfix main.cf and master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBimport_environment (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
The list of environment parameters that a Postfix process will
import from a non-Postfix parent process.
.SH "FILES"
.na
.nf
$\fBconfig_directory/postfix-script\fR, administrative commands
$\fBconfig_directory/main.cf\fR, configuration parameters
$\fBconfig_directory/master.cf\fR, Postfix daemon processes
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
master(8) Postfix master daemon
postconf(1) Postfix configuration management
postconf(5) Postfix configuration parameters
postmap(1) Postfix lookup table management
postsuper(1) Postfix housekeeping
sendmail(1) Sendmail-compatible interface
.PP
.ad
.fi
The manual pages for Postfix daemon programs
invoked via the \fBmaster.cf\fR file.
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The Secure Mailer license must be distributed with this software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
